# 3. Testing in mocked mode

This tutorial walks you through performing tests in the **mocked** mode provided by the fhEVM Hardhat template.

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding, ensure you have:

- A configured Hardhat project using the fhEVM Hardhat template. (See [previous sections](2.-writing-contracts.md))
- Basic knowledge of Solidity and Hardhat testing. (See the [Hardhat testing documentation](https://hardhat.org/hardhat-runner/docs/guides/test-contracts))

{% hint style="info" %}
fhEVM provides a **mocked mode** in Hardhat that allows for:

- Faster testing on a local Hardhat network.
- The ability to analyze code coverage.
- A simulated version of encrypted types (they are not truly encrypted).
- Access to Hardhat features such as snapshots (`evm_snapshot`), time manipulation (`evm_increaseTime`), and debugging (`console.log`).

To learn more about the fhEVM **mocked** mode, refer to the README in the [fhEVM Hardhat template repository](https://github.com/zama-ai/fhevm-hardhat-template).
{% endhint %}

## Running your tests

To run tests in **mocked mode**, open a terminal in your project's root directory and execute:

```
# Using npm
npm run test

# Using yarn
yarn test

# Using pnpm
pnpm test
```

This command runs all tests locally in mocked mode. You should see the test results in your console.

## Next steps

For most development and demonstration scenarios, mocked mode is sufficient. However, for production-ready development and a real testing environment, you need to run your tests on a real fhEVM node. Refer to the [fhEVM Hardhat template README](https://github.com/zama-ai/fhevm-hardhat-template?tab=readme-ov-file#non-mocked-mode---sepolia) for instructions on using the coprocessor deployed on the Sepolia test network.

---

Now that your contract has passed all the tests, let's proceed to learn how to deploy your `ConfidentialERC20` contract on Sepolia.
